
.. _Set up Discussions in Cohorted Courses:


######################################################
Setting up Discussions in Courses with Cohorts
######################################################

In courses that have cohorts enabled, you can set up discussion topics to be
either divided by cohort, or unified and accessible to all students.

When you first enable cohorts in your course, the initial behavior for :ref:`course-wide discussion topics<Coursewide Discussion Topics and Cohorts>` is
different from the behavior of :ref:`content-specific (inline) discussion
topics<Content Specific Discussion Topics and Cohorts>`.

By default, course-wide discussion topics are unified because these discussions
are generally used for topics that are of broad interest to all learners in the
course. In contrast, content-specific discussion topics are by default divided
by cohort. You can change discussion topics of either type to be divided or
unified.

For overview information about discussions in a course, see :ref:`Discussions`.
For information about using cohorts in a course and managing discussions that
are divided by cohort, see :ref:`Cohorts Overview` and :ref:`Moderating
Discussions for Cohorts`.


.. _Coursewide Discussion Topics and Cohorts:

***********************************************
Course-Wide Discussion Topics and Cohorts
***********************************************

When you first :ref:`create a course-wide discussion topic<Create CourseWide
Discussion Topics>`, it is unified, and all students in the course can post,
read, respond, and comment in the topic without regard to their cohort
assignments. 

After you add a course-wide topic, you can configure it so that it is divided by
cohort instead. For step-by-step instructions for specifying whether a course-
wide discussion topic is unified or divided by cohort, see :ref:`Specify Whether
CourseWide Discussion Topics are Cohorted`.

====================================================================
Example: Making Some Course-Wide Discussion Topics Divided by Cohort
====================================================================

Course-wide discussion topics are by default unified, so that all learners can
participate. In some instances, however, you might decide that it makes sense to
divide some course-wide discussion topics by cohort, so that members of each
cohort only see and respond to cohort-specific posts.

For example, in addition to the system-supplied General topic, you add three
new course-wide discussion topics, for a total of four discussion topics.

* General
* Course Q&A
* Announcements
* Brainstorming

The posts that you intend to make to the General and Course Q&A topics, and the
subjects you expect students to explore there, are appropriate for a unified
learner audience. However, you decide that it will be useful for the
Announcements and Brainstorming topics to be divided by cohort.

You also decide to apply a naming convention so that students will know the
audience for the discussion topics before they add any posts. For information
about naming conventions, see :ref:`Apply Naming Conventions to Discussion
Topics`.


.. _Content Specific Discussion Topics and Cohorts:

**********************************************
Content-Specific Discussion Topics and Cohorts
**********************************************

When you enable the cohort feature for a course, and :ref:`create content-
specific discussion topics<Create ContentSpecific Discussion Topics>` by adding
discussion components to units in Studio, these content-specific discussion
topics are by default divided by cohort. A student who is assigned to one
cohort cannot read or add to the posts, responses, or comments contributed
by the members of another cohort.

If you want all content-specific discussion topics in your course to remain
divided by cohort, you do not need to take any further action. However, if you
want one or more content-specific discussion topics to be unified (accessible to
all students regardless of cohort), you can change the setting for specific
discussion topics. For step-by-step instructions for specifying whether a
content-specific discussion topic is unified or divided by cohort, see
:ref:`Specify Whether ContentSpecific Discussion Topics are Cohorted`.


.. _Specify Whether CourseWide Discussion Topics are Cohorted:

********************************************************************
Specify Whether Course-Wide Discussion Topics are Divided by Cohort
********************************************************************

When you create course-wide discussion topics, they are by default unified, and
all learners in the course can see and respond to posts from all other
learners.You can change course-wide discussion topics to be divided by cohort,
so that only members of the same cohort can see and respond to each other's
posts.

To change the cohort settings for course-wide discussion topics, follow these
steps.

#. In the LMS, select **Instructor**, then select **Cohorts**. 

#. Click **Specify whether discussion topics are divided by cohort**. 
   
#. In the **Course-Wide Discussion Topics** section, select the checkbox next to
   each course-wide discussion topic that you want to divide by cohort. Clear
   the checkbox next to each course-wide discussion topic that you want to make
   unified.
   
#. Click **Save**.
   
   The list of course-wide discussion topics is updated to show which topics are
   divided by cohort, and which are unified.

For more information about managing discussions that are divided by cohort, see
:ref:`Moderating Discussions for Cohorts`.


.. _Specify Whether ContentSpecific Discussion Topics are Cohorted:

***************************************************************************
Specify Whether Content-Specific Discussion Topics are Divided by Cohort
***************************************************************************

When you create content-specific discussion topics, the default setting is
that they are divided by cohort. In discussion topics that are divided by
cohort, only members of the same cohort can see and respond to each other's
posts.

You have two options for configuring cohort settings for content-specific
discussion topics.

* Specify that content-specific discussion topics are always divided by cohort.
  
  This setting is the default setting. All content-specific discussion topics
  that you create in your course outline are divided by cohort. If you have
  this setting turned on, you cannot change the cohort settings of individual
  content-specific discussion topics.

* Specify that some content-specific discussion topics are divided by cohort.

  To implement this option, turn off the default setting. You can then specify
  whether each content-specific discussion is unified or divided by cohort.

.. note:: The **Always cohort content-specific discussion topics** setting
   overrides the cohort setting for existing content-specific discussion
   topics as well as any that you create after you select this option. If the
   **Always cohort content-specific discussion topics** option is selected,
   you cannot change the cohort settings of individual content-specific
   discussion topics.

   If you change the setting from **Cohort some content-specific discussion
   topics** back to **Always cohort content-specific discussion topics**, all
   content-specific discussion topics are divided by cohort, regardless of their
   previous setting. Content-specific discussions that were previously unified
   are still shown as unified in the list, but their cohort setting is
   overridden by the setting, and you can no longer edit the cohort setting of
   individual content-specific discussion topics.

To change the cohort settings for content-specific discussion topics, follow
these steps.

#. In the LMS, select **Instructor**, then select **Cohorts**. 

#. Click **Specify whether discussion topics are divided by cohort**. 
   
#. In the **Content-Specific Discussion Topics** section, if you want to
   change the cohort setting for some content-specific discussion topics,
   select **Cohort some content-specific discussion topics**.

    The list of content-specific discussion topics becomes editable. 
   
#. Clear the checkbox next to each content-specific discussion topic that you
   want to make unified. Select the checkbox next to each content-specific
   discussion topic that you want to divide by cohort.
   
#. Click **Save**.
   
   The list of content-specific discussion topics is updated to show which
   topics are divided by cohort, and which are unified. 

For more information about managing discussions that are divided by cohort, see
:ref:`Moderating Discussions for Cohorts`.



   